Rank related study pages
Brand new to the game:

	Welcome to the game of go! There is a lot out there on how to play the game but learning the bare minimum to play does not take long at all. the game is played on a board that has a grid that has 19 lines going up and across. You play the game by placing black or white stones on the intersections of these lines, not the spaces between them. the goal is to capture as much territory as you can. here is a link to the basic concept of capturing [capturing link]. you continue to place pieces until both players pass because they feel like there is no other moves they can do to get territory. Players may also resign if they feel that there is no chance to win. That is all you need to start playing the game! It is deceivingly simple and has many avenues of study to perfect your game.
	
double digit kyu:

	You have been playing for a little while now, and know the very basics of the game. Now that you know what to do on a basic level you want to learn how to improve. This range of strength is broad and covers a large number of players, so there are many ways to get better. The first thing to do is to get comfortable counting liberties on groups of stones. You want to be able to know how much danger is posed to your stones or, how to endanger your opponents stones. After those basics, expand on that and look at go problems. This will help you practice basic reading skills, the ability to see a few moves ahead to help you predict what will happen. By doing these two things you will be able to better react to your opponent's moves.

single digit kyu:

	Getting to single digit kyu is not easy, and you have already have a good grasp on the game. However there is still farther to go, and there always will be. At this point it would be best to analyse your game as much as possible and single out aspects you are bad at, and work on those. The opening will be come more important, both local (joseki) and global (fuseki). THis will help lay your foundation for your games. Now that you can follow a game, it would also benefit you to replay games of better players. You can find many games on-line now a days, as well as some historical games. Search for "kifu" which is a game record of some famous players and analyse them to see why they played the way the did the best you can.[link to famous players article]

Focused study pages
Global Opening:

	Global opening strategy and theory is known as Fuseki. THis is very important to study because it provides a base for the rest of the game. If you do bad at the opening it is incredibly difficult to win a game. To compliment fuseki is local openings theory known as joseki. By combining these two ideas you will be able to start strong. there are two "main" fuseki openings to know when starting out and they involve taking two of the four corners, either on one side or diagonal to each other. the corners are very important in this stage as well as the sides.

Local Opening:

	Local opening strategy and theory is known as joseki. Joseki compliments the global opening theory of fuseki. Joseki is the basic idea that in the opening there are sequences to play out with your opponent that are mutually beneficial to both parties. Not all of them are the same obviously and provide different advantages. By knowing different joseki sequences to play in the beginning you are able to set up a good game, while your opponent doesn't challenge to harshly because they also got something out of the deal. also if you don't know joseki you might get in positions where the opponent is getting more than you in an area because you played some less than ideal moves. Studying this will balance out your game so that you can play better later in the game.
 
Problems:
	
	Problems for go are usually based on the idea that in a situation there is an ideal or beast move for you to play. Especially when the situation involves capturing stones or being captured. That is why a common name for these is life and death problems, or tesuji. Studying these problems help you to read through sequences and anticipate what will happen when certain moves are played. this is very useful during play and allows you to evaluate the situation faster. There are many resources out there for go problems and many very good books written by pro players. [link to list of go problem resources] 






